>> Maximiliano Firtman: A string
methods is actually pretty cool,
probably you have seen some of those or
you have used some of those.
We have now startsWith, this is ES6 by
the way, startsWith, endsWith, includes.
Okay, they are pretty straightforward.
The one will check if a string starts
with an another string if it ends with
another string, or
if it includes another substring.
If you have been playing with
JavaScript for years, like myself,
probably you have been
playing with index of and
then checking if it's minus one
that minus one was giving you.
Well, now includes it's more semantic.
It will tell tell you if
a substring is in there.
And also we have a repeat,
that I have it here and
also I have it separated, I think.
But repeat will just repeat the string
n times, again, straightforward.
Just remember they are there, but
padding, this is new from 2017.
We have now ways we can
take that string and
apply, for example, padStart and
padStart will receive a value,
a length, for
example, I can say 5 or
I can say padEnd with 5.
What's the difference?
Well, here you can see I have
5 spaces before or after.
But as you may be expecting,
just using spaces.
I mean, it's okay, but
it's not always what you want.
So that's why, when if you go to the
solution here, it's not a big deal anyway.
There is a second argument
where you can specify
the character that you want to pad with.
So a 0, okay, dash,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Or
something like that, of course,
it can be any value here.
Two things, two important things.
First, the ECMAScript team
here I think they made
a mistake with the names because padStart.
It's actually not padStart, but padLeft,
and padEnd is actually padRight.
What's the difference when you
are working with languages right to left,
Hebrew, Arabic?
Start should be from the right and
that's not how it works,
start here is always from the left,
okay, so first warning.
So, it should be called padLeft and
padRight, not start and end.
But anyway, it is what it is.
And also,
another important thing is that what
happens if I add more characters here?
It's not just one character,
I can add more things, and
this is what he's going to do.
It's padding with that pattern,
repeating the pattern, okay?
So it's not just one character,
you can match a mix on one space for
example,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Or a dot or
wherever, of course,
it can be any amount of characters here.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It would just
repeat that pattern in the empty space
untill it fills the whole
width that we define.
So trimming,
will trim the spaces at the start or
at the end but
as we mentioned before, start and
end here is not really taking in
consideration right to left, languages?
And this is just the first one,
is trimming the first characters,
actually we should one by one, so
you can see that these spaces
are still there at the end.
And if we do a console.log of that one,
we have this space.
It's just that matchAll, this is bigger.
Okay, I was actually in
the middle of adding this
under strings, or
under regular expressions?
Because it's a string method, but
it belongs to more the regular expression.
I'm not sure if you have played with
regular expressions in JavaScript.
I know that regular
expression sounds scary for
a lot of developers on any language.
[LAUGH] But anyway, ECMAScript already
have a match method on strings where
you can pass the regular expression and
it will match that.
It will try to find a substring,
or it will tell you yes or no,
it depends on what you're looking for.
But it was limited,
the first thing is that,
if you wanna search you can
use regular special for
searching patterns within a string.
It was just returning you the first one.
Okay, matchAll will return
a collection of all the elements that
were found on that particular string
matching your regular expression.
And also, now you can include
capture groups, what is that?
Let's see with that example,
I think it will be clear.
So let's see,
we have this string here, okay?
So, within the string, of course,
we can use ChatGPT for this now but
we are JavaScript developers, right?
We want to do it ourself,
I wanna extract dates with this format.
So, this text contains dates, so
I wanna extract them from the string.
So then I create a regular expression
to match that particular thing.
In this case, quickly,
it says d is a digit, so number, and
4 means four numbers.
So this is one group,
four numbers, another group,
two numbers, two digits, and
another two digits, okay?
Every parenthesis here is
creating a capture group,
that's a regular expression concept.
So now, I can take a text,
the text, the string, and
matchAll using that regular expression.
Remember in JavaScript regular
expression goes within these characters,
okay, that's a regular expression and
actually we receive an array of matches.
If I run this,
it's going to give me all the dates and
also every group separately.
The year, and by the way,
here we can use ES6 to say
something like we wanna get.
It from match, [fullDate,
year, month, day] for match.
So we can extract the data,
because it's an array,
in case you wanna create variables, okay,
instead of using match sub 1, match sub 2.
So, I can extract the whole date and
each group separately, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Now could you put that
destructuring and replace it with,
could you replace
the const match with const?
And then the full [CROSSTALK].
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
the question is can I just do this?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Well first,
the problem is that now I need
to adjust all my references.
So I have the full date, year, month,
go to a new line here, and day.
Okay, I'm okay, so, yes, I can.
So, I can destructure directly
within the four of declaration?
Yes, you can, in this case,
I'm destructuring an array.
But remember, it can also be an object or
a complex destructuring.
Objects and arrays with objects inside,
that's possible.
Okay, make sense?
Well, this was not possible before
matchAll was available, okay?
So, that's new in ECMAScript 2020,
which is kind of cool for
doing these kinds of things.